So let's talk about cleaning fees.
That's something else that when you're making a listing you're going to need to set.
And this is something that gets calculated into the total price.
When they book your listing when they go and they enter in their dates and they enter in the number
of guests it'll calculate a price and then after that subtotal to give them a break down and one of
the items is the cleaning fee that will be next to the air and beefy Wharf in San Francisco.
The occupancy tax the hotel tax they're going to see that and a lot of times people are new LV and B
see that and they think that's strange that that's separated out.
You know I personally in my opinion it seems also a bit weird too.
But for the most part when you tack on a fee after the fact it seems to you it has less of an impact
I guess.
Let's say it's easier for someone to say yes I'm interested in a space for $200 with a $50 cleaning
fee than a space for $250.
This is different than hotels in the sense that hotels don't typically charge you for the cleaning fee
it's just baked in or is air B and B separates it out.
You can debate the pros and cons of that but it kind of is the way it is.
How do you set the cleaning fee.
You know this kind of depends and I know a lot of people when they start off they are going to be inclined
to clean themselves.
They're saying oh it's a spare room and really Carol clean it myself if that's your attitude about it.
That's great.
I'm going to say that it's going to get old very quickly and it usually does.
When I first started out I said I'm going to clean my spare space every time myself because you know
I want to keep all the money and or I don't want to charge a cleaning fee.
Why would I do that.
You know how clean Do I need to get and what I realized over time was that the standard for cleanliness
is a bit exhausting.
And it's a lot more strict than you think since people are paying money to stay in your space.
It is better to have someone else come clean it who is good at creating spaces in general.
So it does give me more detail oriented someone's going to have the supplies does you know does this
part time full time that's going to get you a better outcome.
And it's also going to make this entire experience more enjoyable for you because you're not going to
spend a lot of time cleaning rooms and the whole idea behind Air B and B is to make more income doing
something you love that doesn't take a ton of time renting out my space takes very little time.
In some cases I have it set up such that my apartment gets rented out someone comes clean that the next
person gets checked in and I don't even realize this happens.
The only difference is I see a bear and be sending me checks to my bank account or a direct deposit
start on my bank account and then you know maybe one out of three or four people actually have some
interaction with them.
That's when I'm running out my entire space I'm gone.
But you want to get to the point where you're automating more of it because it's just going to be too
much to deal with at first.
If you are cleaning your spare space you know you I think it takes 10 minutes to do it correctly it's
going to take 30 minutes because you're going to do a lot more than you thought you can start doing
detailing and not just general cleaning you're going end up doing a lot of empty loads of laundry that
are only half filled and you end up you know if you're being smart about it you don't have to clean
the kitchen and clean the bathroom every single time.
So it's a lot more to it than you think.
And I'd strongly suggest getting someone else to clean it how you now calculate cleaning fees.
It just depends on where you are.
San Francisco is a lot of services for this.
Airbnb has its own cleaning service that they partnered with some other firm.
Their cleaning fee is just it makes no sense.
My apartment it's technically a two bedroom two bath and I turned into a three bedroom.
They charge $90 for cleaning which you break that down and it's suits me one person for three hours.
I didn't realize that when we have a doctorate student cleaning my apartment.
But it's a service.
And you know you pay extra because they handle a lot more than what you could do on your own because
if I was scheduling someone myself I'd have to be evaluating how well they cleaned it and make sure
that they show up and make sure that they keep a key in all sorts of these issues.
If you want to use a service look into the service see what the price says.
In San Francisco you hide a lot of options you can use TaskRabbit dot com.
It's a service that's quite helpful and you can build a rapport with someone too.
And so maybe they give you a discount because you can do bulk and that's better for you because they
are going to be better at cleaning space and going to be faster at it or you know maybe have a nephew
or a cousin or something who needs all that extra cash and you can throw it their way.
Typically in areas that are cheaper where labor costs are cheaper you're cleaning fees are going to
be lower to clean a full apartment so it's a two bedroom two bath you're going to need a good two hours
three hours.
So kind of figure what the average per hour rate is or if you want to clean it yourself every single
time.
Go for it but calculate what's worth it for you to do this every single time.
I think you're going to burn out.
But at least compensate yourself.
When you first start listing it we'll talk about this later more in depth.
I usually suggest maybe waiving the cleaning fee or putting it very low because you really don't want
to create more and more barriers to people booking because at first year religious subsidizing the first
couple rentals or first 20 rentals so you can get the review base because the review is really going
to build your credibility in the market.
The one thing I would say not to do is don't try to profit off of the cleaning fee.
I think the people who are booking are being slammed with enough fees as it is that I don't think it's
worth trying to make a margin on it.
And also you're not going to be making a lot of money.
I mean it's say your average rentals three day rental you get one fee one time if you're not your space
for $200 cleaning fees $50 and three nights that's $600 in total rental and $50 and cleaning fee don't
try to make money off of it.
Try to honestly calculate out what you think it'll actually get the cost to do.
But then I want you to make sure that you are figuring out the easiest most pain free way to get it
cleaned.
Well if you have a cleaner and a cleaner says you know it's $10 an hour.
Pay them 15 because you really want them to care and you want them to really try hard because one stray
hair can just ruin a guest experience or in a lot of cases a lot of Gesell just freak out about that
very small things can make the experience go south very quickly.
So make sure you have enough money in your budget per cleaning to do it correctly.
That's why I say figure out what the average labor cost is.
Say 30 percent 40 percent.
That's a decent way of doing it.
If you live in an area where the cleaning is very expensive I would say do the opposite which is subsidize
it a little bit with my listing rents out for $400 a night and it costs me $90 to clean it but I only
charge a cleaning fee of 60 and that's simply because when people come and they're paying this much
to stay they really don't want to get slammed with another $90.
It just looks out of place.
And that's my strategy.
But that's something you'll do later once you're more experienced and you have your properties price
but the highest it can be because you've had a lot of experience with it.
Because any questions let me know.
I mentioned a couple of services in here that are specific to San Francisco but they are open in other
cities.
If you live in a city that doesn't have a lot of these services that are very easy to use of mobile
apps you can order your cleanings from.
I would just look around.
Craigslist is always a great place to find cleaners and especially cleaning services cleaning services.
You will pay more but you're going to manage them less so it's worth considering there's a lot of people
out there.
If you've a personal relationship with someone a college student who needs extra money this is a great
thing for them especially if they know it's consistent and you can send them your schedule beforehand.
That's generally what I would look into.